.TH CLEAN 8l "04 October rhost
.SH NAME
.B rclean
- selectively archives and deletes old files on a remote host
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBrclean \fR[\fB-a \fI<age>\fR] [\fB-c \fI<config>\fR] [\fB-d\fR] [\fB-l\fR]
[\fB-t\fR] [\fB-v\fR] \fI<host_name>\fR
.br
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B rclean
is a Bourne shell script which should work equally well on all versions of UNIX
and Linux.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rclean
Is a hardwired host specific script used to keep a remote server's file
system reasonably tidy.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
\fB-a \fI#days\fR
Sets the minimum age threshold in days before files may be deleted. This 
value is normally set in the \fIconfiguration file\fR. The default is
100 days. Both the configuration file and the default are trumped by the
command line option.
.TP 5
.B -c 
.I <config_file>
The default \fIconfiguration file\fR is \fB/usr/local/etc/rclean.cf\fR. An 
alternative configuration file may be set with the \fB-c\fR option on the 
command line.
.TP
.B -d 
sets the script to debug mode (ie. runs with the shell option -x)
.TP 5
.B -l
turns on logging using the 
.B syslog
facility. This is particularly useful where statistics are being compiled
for presentation to the client, see 
.IR report .
.IP
Just to make life harder the logging is done by the remote host so that 
host's logging facility will need to be configured for remote logging as 
will the administration box's to allow it to receive the remote syslog messages.
.TP 5
.B -v 
Sets the script to verbose mode. Each significant action will be reported
on standard out.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
.ft CW
5 0 * * * su - fulford -c "/usr/local/etc/rclean -a 8 albert"
.ft R
.fi
.LP
The above is an extract from a root 
.B crontab 
file and illustrates the typical use of the script in practice. The files to
be deleted or archived are specified within the script itself but the minimum
age of the files before deletion is more flexible as it is specified on
the command line and in this case is 8 days.
.LP
.BR NB .
The hostname 
.I albert
is being resolved locally and does not require a fully qualified domain.
.SH BUGS
The script is quite crude having been developed to address problems experienced
by City Linux clients that were running out of disk space. The script does
depend on very specific file names and paths. It could be made more generic
by adding a configuration file.

.SH SEE ALSO
.IR chkdf ,
.IR chkftpd ,
.IR chkfw ,
.IR secscan .
.SH AUTHOR
Clifford W Fulford, City Linux. Contact fulford@fulford.net or +44 (0)709 229 5385.
